Koji Smoky Dingo preview 0.9.6 Release Notes
============================================

*Unreleased*

General user-base is still very limited at this point in time, so we
get very few bug reports or new ideas. If you're a koji-smoky-dingo
user and you have feedback, please do let me know via the
[tracker]. We need as many users as possible to try things out so that
we can identify problems before a 1.0.0 release!

[tracker]: https://github.com/obriencj/koji-smoky-dingo/issues

Otherwise, still chugging along!

- Refactored the sifty sieve caching mechanism so that it is easier to
  associate cached calls with the sifter rather than the sieve
  instance.
- Added a ChacheMixin to kojismokydingo.sift.common with methods that
  will cache the results of large tag queries. Sieve classes can
  inherit this to make use of the cache.
- Added build sieves compare-latest-nvr and compare-latest-id. These
  allow for filtering builds using comparison operators against the
  latest build of the same package in a given tag.
- Added build sieve pkg-unlisted to filter builds which do not have a
  package listing in a particular tag (neither allowed nor blocked)
- Fixed an issue where the ksd-filter-builds standalone would still
  require the '--profile' option to be specified on the command-line
  even when the '#option --profile' directive was present in the
  filter.
- Added 'koji open' command which will launch a browser to the info
  page for the relevant koji data type.
- Added 'koji filter-tags' command and 'ksd-filter-tags' standalone
  command for applying sifty predicates to filter a list of tags
- Sieve predicats may now accept options via a keyword-like syntax if
  they supply a 'set_options' method.
- Enable loading of additional sieves via entry_points for the
  'filter-tags', 'filter-builds', and 'list-component-builds' koji
  commands and the 'ksd-filter-tags' and 'ksd-filter-builds'
  standalone commands.
- Adds functions to kojismokydingo.common for working with
  plugin-oriented configuration, with optional per-profile settings.
