Koji Smoky Dingo 1.0.0 Release Notes
====================================

*April 1, 2021*

We've finally made it to the first official full release!


Version 1.0.0 provides the following koji client commands

* `koji affected—targets` Show targets which would be impacted by
  modifications to the given tag
* `koji block-env-var` Blocks a mock environment variable from a tag.
* `koji block-rpm-macro` Blocks a mock RPM macro from a tag.
* `koji bulk—move-builds` Move a large amount of builds, bypassing the
  creation of individual tasks.
* `koji bulk—tag-builds` Tag a large amount of builds, bypassing the
  creation of individual tasks.
* `koji bulk—untag-builds` Untag a large amount of builds, bypassing
  the creation of individual tasks.
* `koji cginfo` Show content generators and their permitted users
* `koji check—hosts` Show builder hosts which haven't been checking in lately
* `koji client-config` Show settings for client profiles
* `koji filter-builds` Filter a list of NVRs by various criteria
* `koji filter-tags` Filter a list of tags by various criteria
* `koji latest-archives` Show selected latest archives from a tag
* `koji list-btypes` Show build types
* `koji list-build-archives` Show selected archives attached to a build
* `koji list-cgs` Show content generators
* `koji list-component-builds` Show builds which were used to produce others
* `koji list-env-vars` Show all inherited mock environment variables for a tag
* `koji list-rpm-macros` Show all inherited mock RPM macros for a tag
* `koji list-tag-extras` Show all inherited extra fields for a tag
* `koji open` Opens a brower to the info page for data types
* `koji perminfo` Show information about a permission
* `koji remove-env-var` Removes a mock environment variable from a tag.
* `koji remove-rpm-macro` Removes a mock RPM macro from a tag.
* `koji renum—tag-inheritance` Adjust the priority values of a tag to
  maintain the same inheritance order, but to create an even amount of
  space between each entry.
* `koji set-env-var` Sets, unsets, or blocks the value of a mock
  environment variable on a tag.
* `koji set-rpm-macro` Sets, unsets, or blocks the value of a mock RPM
  macro on a tag.
* `koji swap—tag-inheritance` Adjust the inheritance of a tag by
  replacing one entry for another. If both entries are already parents
  of a tag, then swap the priority of the two.
* `koji userinfo` Show information about a user account


And the following standalone filtering commands

* `ksd-filter-builds` Similar to `koji filter-builds` but usable as a
  shebang
* `ksd-filter-tags` Similar to `koji filter-tagss` but usable as a
  shebang


The version 1 stream will continue to support Python 2 while
maintaining API compatability moving forward. Version 2.0 will drop
Python 2 support, and may introduce API compatability changes.


Changes from the v0.9.7 preview release:

* fixed error with strict option still being looked for from the
  ``list-component-builds`` command
* `filter_by_state` renamed to `filter_builds_by_state`
* `filter_by_tags` ranamed to `filter_builds_by_tags`
* `filter_imported` renamed to `filter_imported_builds`
